Essential Light: A Meditation and Recitation Practice for White Prajñāpāramitā Namo guru prajñāpāramitāyai! Those wishing to accomplish the sublime qualities of intelligence and speech through the meditation and recitation of White Prajñāpāramitā as taught in The Noble Vajra Canopy Ḍākinī Tantra should practice as follows. From now until awakening, I and all beings Devotedly take refuge in the Guru And the Three Jewels. For beings' benefit, I will accomplish perfect buddhahood! OṂ ŚŪNYATĀ JÑĀNA VAJRA SVABHĀVA ATMAKO 'HAṂ From within emptiness, upon a lotus and moon disc Is my mind in the form of a white OṂ, From which light streams forth, offering to the noble ones and fulfilling beings' benefit. The light is gathered back And instantly I become Prajñāpāramitā, Radiant white, enchanting, adorned with the marks and signs. My two hands, displaying the Dharma-teaching mūdra at my heart, Hold both a white and red lotus by their stems. Bearing a pair of Prajñāpāramitā scriptures, They blossom next to my ears. I am adorned with ornaments of silk and jewels, While seated with my two legs in vajra posture. In the center of my heart is a white lotus with eight petals. In its center is an OṂ that becomes the wisdom being, Identical to myself. At her heart center, on a lotus and moon disc, Is the samādhi being-a white OṂ- From which emerges a mantra garland emitting rays of light, All white as pearl. The mantra garland exits from the navel, enters through the mouth, And dissolves inseparably with OṂ at the heart center. It continues to circle around, like a whirling firebrand, Completely vanquishing the darkness of ignorance And making the light of wakefulness expand. Recite that and visualize accordingly. Then: OṂ PICU PICU PRAJÑĀ VARDHANI JVALA JVALA MEDHIVARDHANI DHIRI DHIRI BUDDHI VARDHANI SVĀHĀ Recite that as much you can. Afterward, when bringing the session to an end, say: Blessed Lady, bestow on me and all beings The light of wisdom and wakefulness! My three places are marked With the vajra syllables-OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ. Through this virtue, having swiftly accomplished Prajñāpāramitā, Perfection of Wisdom, [May I establish all wandering beings Without a single exception in that state!] With that and other such verses, conclude the session with dedications and aspirations and then begin your daily activities. This was written by Mañjughoṣa. Suśreyantu. 
